docs/trulens_eval/core_concepts_honest_harmless_helpful_evals.md, before:

# Honest, Harmless and Helpful Evaluations

TruLens adapts ‘**honest**, **harmless**, **helpful**’ as desirable criteria for LLM apps from Anthropic. These criteria are simple and memorable, and seem to capture the majority of what we want from an AI system, such as an LLM app.

## TruLens Implementation

To accomplish these evaluations we've built out a suite of evaluations (feedback functions) in TruLens that fall into each category, shown below. These feedback funcitons provide a starting point for ensuring your LLM app is performant and aligned.

![Honest Harmless Helpful Evals](../assets/images/Honest_Harmless_Helpful_Evals.jpg)

Here are some very brief notes on these terms from *Anthropic*:

## Honest:
- At its most basic level, the AI should give accurate information. Moreover, it should be calibrated (e.g. it should be correct 80% of the time when it claims 80% confidence) and express appropriate levels of uncertainty. It should express its uncertainty without misleading human users.

- Crucially, the AI should be honest about its own capabilities and levels of knowledge – it is not sufficient for it to simply imitate the responses expected from a seemingly humble and honest expert.

- Ideally the AI would also be honest about itself and its own internal state, insofar as that information is available to it.

## Harmless:
- The AI should not be offensive or discriminatory, either directly or through subtext or bias.

- When asked to aid in a dangerous act (e.g. building a bomb), the AI should politely refuse. Ideally the AI will recognize disguised attempts to solicit help for nefarious purposes.

- To the best of its abilities, the AI should recognize when it may be providing very sensitive or consequential advice and act with appropriate modesty and care.

- What behaviors are considered harmful and to what degree will vary across people and cultures. It will also be context-dependent, i.e. it will depend on the nature of the use.

## Helpful:
- The AI should make a clear attempt to perform the task or answer the question posed (as long as this isn’t harmful). It should do this as concisely and efficiently as possible.

- When more information is required, the AI should ask relevant follow-up questions and obtain necessary details. It should respond with appropriate levels of sensitivity, insight, and discretion.

- Ideally the AI will also re-direct ill-informed requests, e.g. if asked ‘how can I build a website in assembly language’ it might suggest a different approach.

Commit message:

Iterating on RAGs (#580)
* if groundedness output is not list, set as list so agg functions properly

* fix 0 resolving to null then -1 bug

* new demo flow

* data + eval questions

* jailbreak question

* flow updates

* eval questions

* honest harmless evals

* Add helpful evals

* update demo notebook

* split notebooks

* header md

* symlinc iterating rag nbs to docs

* remove errant number

* add notebook links to 3h core concept

* text updates to hhh evals

* make runnable on colab

* remove files no longer needed bc examples are self-contained

* remove dups

* undo spacing change on evaluations.py

docs/trulens_eval/core_concepts_honest_harmless_helpful_evals.md, after:

# Honest, Harmless and Helpful Evaluations

TruLens adapts ‘**honest**, **harmless**, **helpful**’ as desirable criteria for LLM apps from Anthropic. These criteria are simple and memorable, and seem to capture the majority of what we want from an AI system, such as an LLM app.

## TruLens Implementation

To accomplish these evaluations we've built out a suite of evaluations (feedback functions) in TruLens that fall into each category, shown below. These feedback funcitons provide a starting point for ensuring your LLM app is performant and aligned.

![Honest Harmless Helpful Evals](../assets/images/Honest_Harmless_Helpful_Evals.jpg)

## Honest:
- At its most basic level, the AI applications should give accurate information.

- It should have access too, retrieve and reliably use the information needed to answer questions it is intended for.

**See honest evaluations in action:**

- [Building and Evaluating a prototype RAG](./1_rag_prototype.ipynb)

- [Reducing Hallucination for RAGs](./2_honest_rag.ipynb)

## Harmless:
- The AI should not be offensive or discriminatory, either directly or through subtext or bias.

- When asked to aid in a dangerous act (e.g. building a bomb), the AI should politely refuse. Ideally the AI will recognize disguised attempts to solicit help for nefarious purposes.

- To the best of its abilities, the AI should recognize when it may be providing very sensitive or consequential advice and act with appropriate modesty and care.

- What behaviors are considered harmful and to what degree will vary across people and cultures. It will also be context-dependent, i.e. it will depend on the nature of the use.

**See harmless evaluations in action:**

- [Harmless Evaluation for LLM apps](./3_harmless_eval.ipynb)

- [Improving Harmlessness for LLM apps](./4_harmless_rag.ipynb)

## Helpful:
- The AI should make a clear attempt to perform the task or answer the question posed (as long as this isn’t harmful). It should do this as concisely and efficiently as possible.

- Last, AI should answer questions in the same language they are posed, and respond in a helpful tone.

**See helpful evaluations in action:**

- [Helpful Evaluation for LLM apps](./5_helpful_eval.ipynb)
